# RF-SDA-System
## Building a Doppler-based Space Domain Awareness system using COTS technology and machine learning.

This repository represents my first step towards a project I have been thinking about pursuing for a while: a localized Space Domain Awareness (SDA) system that tracks the velocity and direction of satellites overhead using the Doppler from their telemetry. I am neither an electrical engineer nor a programmer - simply an individual who operates a wide variety of RF equipment often, and has decided to seize on a burning curiosity to know more.

I intend to use software defined radios (RTL SDR v4 & HackRF) along with antennas suited for amateur satellite telemetry reception. The first step is to develop the basic capability to detect and record amateur satellite telemetry. Following that, I will work probably the most difficult portion of this project: sensing and utilizing the Doppler effect to determine satellite direction and velocity. I will use updated two line element (TLE) codes as my reference data to validate my system. After developing a satisfactory Doppler-sensing capability, I intend to train an AI/ML model on this data to further automate the SDA system.

AI DISCLAIMER: I believe that AI (read: LLM technology) has become the latest information revolution, comparable to the advent of the internet. Regardless of my personal feelings on the matter, I believe that AI tools present a clear adopt-or-die scenario to those who value personal and professional growth. In light of that, I intend to use frontier LLMs (alongside LLMs that I have configured to run on my own hardware) to assist my learning and development process. However, I will not steal AI work and pass it as my own - by doing so, I would only be shooting myself in the foot. Instead, each update to this project will include a thorough log of AI contributions if applicable. I will not be logging every element of AI support to my personal knowledge development because that would be an immense task. This README will always be a reflection of my own words untouched and un-reviewed by AI. Documents I have reviewed by AI will possess a disclaimer.

This project will be updated at least once a week until completion. Much of it will be documentation surrounding my own learning and hardware journey to bring this project to life.
